Dear members of the Northwestern community, 
As we approach the annual observance of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.’s legacy, it is crucial for us to reflect on the profound impact he had on our nation and acknowledge how his teachings endure in the present. Each year, we come together to celebrate Dr. King not only as a historical figure but also as a beacon of inspiration whose teachings remain relevant and transformative. 
On Monday, Jan. 15, the Northwestern community will begin our celebration with the Alpha Mu Chapter of Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity, Inc. Candlelight Vigil in Alice Millar Chapel. The vigil will feature Rev. Dr. Reginald W. Williams Jr., pastor of the First Baptist Church of University Park, Illinois. 
The following day, Jan. 16, the Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Commemoration keynote address will be delivered in the Mary B. Galvin Recital Hall by Jonathan Eig, bestselling author of six books and a graduate of Northwestern’s Medill School of Journalism, Media, Integrated Marketing Communications. Eig’s latest book, “King: A Life,” earned critical acclaim for its new reporting and complex portrayal of Martin Luther King Jr. Following his speech, Eig will engage in a moderated discussion with Medill dean and professor Charles Whitaker. 
For a comprehensive schedule of events on our Chicago and Evanston campuses, please visit the 2024 Martin Luther King Jr. website. 
As these events take place, we extend our gratitude to the planning committee of the Martin Luther King Jr. Commemoration for helping the Northwestern community discover innovative ways to honor Dr. King’s legacy and inspire greater aspirations. 
In commemorating Dr. King, we pay tribute to an iconic leader and affirm our collective responsibility to carry forward his legacy. Let us embrace the challenge to create an environment that reflects the ideals he so passionately envisioned. As Dr. King eloquently stated, “The time is always right to do what is right.” May we be guided by these words as we strive to build a more just and inclusive future for our Northwestern community and the world around us.
Social Media