Dear members of the Northwestern community,
With students preparing to return to Evanston in the coming weeks and programs already underway across our campuses, we are excited to start another academic year.
As we once again fill our classrooms, laboratories, study spaces and offices, we remain focused on the core of our mission as a university — to create space for learning, where ideas flow freely, we learn from one another, and we push each other to create and to discover.
Difficult and sometimes painful events of the past year brought to light gaps and inconsistencies in Northwestern policies regarding demonstrations and other expressive activities. We write today to share updates to these policies — as well as the Student Code of Conduct — that will establish expectations and clarify actions that violate these policies. Our aim is for these changes to facilitate the kind of dialogue, respectful disagreements and exchanges of ideas that we expect at Northwestern and to enable us to do our best work as students, faculty and staff.
As President Schill wrote in his Aug. 20 message, our goal is to ensure every member of our community feels safe and supported, and that our campuses are free from intimidation, discrimination or harassment that can impede a thriving learning environment.
The following policy changes are now in effect. We provide some details on each of them below, but we encourage you to take the time to read through the documents fully.
The updated Demonstration Policy includes new requirements and guidance on how, when and where members of the community may protest or otherwise engage in expressive activity. The revisions prohibit overnight demonstrations and place limitations on activity that disrupts classes and other functions of the University, including prohibiting demonstrations at the Rock before 3 p.m. on weekdays and the use of amplified sound in that area before 5 p.m.
A new Display and Solicitation Policy sets clear rules and requirements for on-campus displays, including flyers, banners, chalking and 3-D installations. The policy establishes designated areas for flyers, chalking and other displays and details when the University will remove displays. This policy also prohibits the use of tents (with exceptions for University-sponsored events and for the purposes of guarding and painting the Rock), light displays and chalking on buildings. Signs that violate laws and other University policies are prohibited.
The Student Handbook, which contains the Student Code of Conduct (Page 14), is updated each year. This year’s policy changes include but are not limited to the following: 
Faculty and staff are encouraged to review their respective handbooks. Each member of the Northwestern community is expected to interact with each other with respect and consideration.
In addition to the policies above, the Office of Civil Rights and Title IX Compliance (OCR) has updated two of its policies and added a new policy:
The goal of any policy change — including those mentioned in this message — is not punitive, though there will be sanctions for violations that range from a warning for minor offenses to suspension, expulsion or termination for major infractions. We share these policies now to help ensure we all have a shared understanding of our responsibilities, requirements and limitations as campus life resumes. We anticipate sharing more information soon about how these policies will work in practice and related trainings.
Thank you for taking the time to review these updates as we begin another successful year at Northwestern.
Social Media