Dear students,
As we embark on the 2024-25 academic year, I want to extend my warmest wishes for a fulfilling and healthy start to a new year here at Northwestern.
As Wildcats, we care about each other and are committed to strengthening our community. Whether you are new to our University or returning for another year, know that the Division of Student Affairs is here to support you fully — when you need help, a listening ear, or resources to thrive both personally and academically.
Our commitment to you begins with a focus on wellness. NUhelp is your comprehensive guide to Northwestern's wellness, safety and crisis resources, ensuring you’re never alone when facing challenges. NUhelp is available whenever you need mental health support, physical wellness resources or assistance during a crisis.
For those seeking mental health support, Counseling and Psychological Services serves as your main resource. Additionally, all Northwestern students have access to TimelyCare, a free virtual mental health platform offering scheduled counseling, the TalkNow 24/7 on-demand service, and group sessions. For more information, including FAQs and download instructions, please visit northwestern.edu/timelycare.
Forming connections and building community in a new place takes time. Whether you're participating in programming within your residence halls and residential areas, engaging with our affinity spaces, exploring your spirituality, or getting involved on campus, in the community, or in student organizations, there are many ways to find your place and connect with others at Northwestern. Everyone’s journey has its own twists and turns, and we encourage you to connect with the Northwestern resource that best fits your needs.
I also encourage you to review the Northwestern Student Handbook as a reminder of the values we uphold as a community that is dedicated to both personal and academic discovery.
To our new undergraduate, graduate and transfer students: I am thrilled to welcome you to Northwestern as our newest Wildcats. I look forward to meeting many of you and working together to cultivate a kind, caring and connected Northwestern community.
Social Media